Well let's continue working on giving the arms and legs a little more detail.
I'm going to work on the lower leg here and click it and zoom in with the period key on the numpad.
And if I hit the tab key I can see that we've just got three edge loops here.
I'm going to click over here and turn off the Adjust edit cage setting here.
So what I want to do is provide some sort of detail at the top and the bottom of this piece.
So I'm just going to insert an edge loop here and bring it down and I'm going to make kind of like a
cuff.
I'm going to go to face mode and Allt click and edge between these two faces to select that whole edge
loop.
And now I want to extrude these out and what I'm going to do is I want to come over here under the extrude
pulldown and choose region vertex normal's and what that will do is it will actually extrude in one
step in the direction of each individual face.
So if I click this and I drag the mouse you can see it's coming out.
Each individual face is coming out in its own direction.
So that's what I want.
I think I'm going to go about right.
Here and click and then I'm going to add a couple of extra edge loops to hold this because if I unselect
this and turn this back on over here this edit cage setting.
You can see that it's kind of it isn't real tight.
The edges aren't real clean.
So I'm going to try and add some to that and press control are and right in here I'm going to hover
and I'm going to scroll the mouse wheel and maybe I'll scroll it so I can get two edge loops in here
and then click again.
And in addition I think I'm going to add an edge loop right in here to so it will really hold that pretty
tightly about there.
Now you can see that edge is pretty sharp.
It's still rounded enough to give us the sense that it's a real world object because no real world object
is exactly 90 degrees at an edge.
But it sharpens up the edge to give us a sense that it is a hard surface object.
So now up here at the top of this piece I'm going to turn off the cage for just a moment and insert
an Angelou appear face mode alt click and edge between those two faces and use this extrude region Virtex
normal's again and pull that out just a bit something like that.
Insert a couple of edge loops and maybe one or more down here.
Tighten that up and we go.
So now we've got a sense that yes the object spins smooth but it's still a hard surface object because
it's maintaining those relatively hard edges.
All right.
Let's go on up here and I'm going to do the same thing I'm a turn off this adjust edit cage for now
insert and loop face mounted and extrude region.
Same thing
insert two edge loops to hold that shape insert an edge loop appear and pull it down a bit and then
we have that one.
And I'm just going to keep going for the rest of the leg here as well.
I'm going to do this for the forearm and the upper arm too.
Now one thing I've noticed is that some of these don't completely meet with the joints.
So there's this kind of a gap here and he's going to select this edge and scale this in so it meets
that shoulder joint.
Just so you can't accidentally see down into one of the limbs.
I'll take a look at the leg joints as well to
well I've taken care of the arm and leg but this shoulder joint looks a little bit messy as well.
We need to clean that up.
So I've selected the body of the Mac and I'm just going to press the forward slash or divide key on
the numpad to isolate it.
And now I'm going to select maybe just an edge and zoom in with the period key.
So here's what it looks like it's pretty low rez which means it's going to be kind of gloppy here.
So I think I need to insert a couple of edge loops here at least on the outside to see what I can get.
Let's try this and insert maybe two edge loops here.
I think that's helped.
But also I think we need to do something with this.
Now one thing about inserting an edge loop or the loop cut and slide tool is that if I press control
are here and hover over these edges I don't get an edge here if I come over here.
I do.
The reason why I don't get an edge when I have a rover these is that they're tri's that when you insert
an agile loop they can only go through four sided polygons or quads.
These are three sided or tries.
So I can't get an edge loop to go through them what I want is I want an edge loop in here to hold the
edge a little bit tighter.
So how to insert an edge loop into a collection of tries.
The best way to do that is actually to select faces and then extrude.
So let me do that.
I want to select these faces here.
And then I want them to do is hit the e key and then I'm going to click the mouse.
And now I'm going to hit the ESC key and I'm on a scale in.
And now what I've done is I've actually created a place let me tab out of edit mode here.
Now I've created an edge here that's going to hold that.
So let me go back let me turn on this cage modifier here.
So now you can see I've inserted this edge loop by extruding and then scaling and so now I have this
piece to work with.
So I could maybe insert another edge loop in here like this and that would hold that a little bit tighter
as well.
I think one more thing I'm going to select these faces with the C key the circle select tool and click
and drag and then all right click to get out of that and then maybe I'll extrude one more time going
and I'm going to turn off this and it cage here and maybe I will hit the e key.
I'm going to push back in.
So it's going to be kind of ugly here at the beginning and then I'm going to scale in from here.
I like that.
Now what does that do for me.
Let's see.
I'm going to hit this button again.
And that gives me something like that.
Now if I insert an edge loop along here.
Now
that will allow me to make this a little bit sharper than a scale this in some I guess.
So now I have that kind of rim around that piece.
All right.
So let's see how that looks with the shoulder in I'm going to press the forward slash on the numpad
and bring that back.
That's looking OK but I feel like I need to collapse or scale in these edges a bit.
I don't need them quite that big but just going to scale that in just a bit.
I think that's all it needed.
Ok so we now have some detail on the arm and the legs there.
We can next take a look at this jet pack and see what we need to do to it.